Introduction:

1.1 Overview:
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the number one cause of death today. Over 17.7 million people died from CVDs in the year 2017 all over the world which is about 31% of all deaths, and over 75% of these deaths occur in low and middle-income countries. Arrhythmia is a representative type of CVD that refers to any irregular change from the normal heart rhythms. There are several types of arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation, premature contraction, ventricular fibrillation, and tachycardia. Although a single arrhythmia heartbeat may not have a serious impact on life, continuous arrhythmia beats can result in fatal circumstances. In this project, we build an effective electrocardiogram (ECG) arrhythmia classification method using a convolution al neural network (CNN), in which we classify ECG into seven categories, one being normal and the other six being different types of arrhythmia using deep two-dimensional CNN with grayscale ECG images. We are creating a web application where the user selects the image which is to be classified. The image is fed into the model that is trained and the cited class will be displayed on the webpage.

1.2 Purpose:
In the past few decades, Deep Learning has proved to be a compelling tool because of its ability to handle large amounts of data. The interest to use hidden layers has surpassed traditional techniques, especially in pattern recognition. One of the most popular deep neural networks is Convolution al Neural Networks.

In deep learning, a convolution al neural network (CNN/ConvNet) is a class of deep neural networks, most commonly applied to analyze visual imagery. Now when we think of a neural network we think about matrix multiplications but that is not the case with ConvNet. It uses a special technique called Convolution. Now in mathematics convolution is a mathematical operation on two functions that produces a third function that expresses how the shape of one is modified by the other.

Literature Survey:
2.1 Existing Problem:
Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the number one cause of death today. Over 17.7 million people died from CVDs in the year 2017 all over the world which is about 31% of all deaths, and over 75% of these deaths occur in low and middle-income countries. Arrhythmia is a representative type of CVD that refers to any irregular change from the normal heart rhythms. There are several types of arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation, premature contraction, ventricular fibrillation, and tachycardia.

2.1 Proposed Solution:
An "ambulatory electrocardiogram" or an ECG) about the size of a postcard or digital camera that the patient will be using for 1 to 2 days, or up to 2 weeks. The test measures the movement of electrical signals or waves through the heart. These signals tell the heart to contract (squeeze) and pump blood. The patient will have electrodes taped to your skin. It's painless, although some people have mild skin irritation from the tape used to attach the electrodes to the chest.They can do everything but shower or bathe while wearing the electrodes. After the test period, patient will go back to see your doctor. They will be downloading the information.
